[MUSIC]
In Course Three, the agents you
implemented update the value function or
policy only once with each sample.
But this is likely not the most
sample efficient way to use our data.
You have actually seen a smarter approach
in Course Two where we talked about Dyna
as a way to be more sample efficient.
But we only talked about Dyna for
the tabular setting.
>> [SOUND]
>> In this video, we will talk about how
to make your agent more sample efficient
when using function approximation.
We will discuss a simple method
called experience replay and
how it relates to Dyna.
To get some intuition for
experience replay,
let's first remember a method
that we know well, Dyna-Q.
The idea is to learn a model
using sample experience.
Then simulated experience can be obtained
from this model to update the values.
This procedure of using simulated
experience to improve the value estimates
is called planning.
To focus on the key ideas in Dyna, we made
a few simplifying assumptions, namely
Dyna-Q assumes deterministic transitions
for a relatively small state space.
For this setting,
learning the model was simple.
For every visit state action pair, we
record the observed reward and next state.
This only works in the tabular setting
where the number of state action pairs is
small enough to fit into computer memory.
If we were to attempt this in
a continuous state domain,
we would have an infinite amount
of state action pair at store.
Or worse than that, we will not see
the same state twice if the world is.
One option is to learn a model using
all your new knowledge about function
approximation.
For example, you can learn a parameterize
function that input states and
actions and
outputs next states and rewards.
Unfortunately, even small errors in such a
learn dynamics model seem to cause serious
issues.
It remains an open resource
question how to effectively
use learn models in an RL agent.
>> [SOUND]
>> Fortunately,
there is a simpler option for
your Capstone.
Experience replay is a simple method for
trying to get the advantages of Dyna.
The basic idea is to save a buffer of
experience and let the data be the model.
We sample experience from this buffer and
update the value function with those
samples similarly to how we sample from
the model and update the values in Dyna.
The key choices for experience
replay are the size of the buffer,
what experience to store, and
how many updates to execute per step?
Let's first take a look at
how we store the experiences.
For simplicity,
let's go back to the tabular grid world.
As you interact with the world,
we observe a state, action, reward,
next state tupple.
We add these experiences to a buffer that
we'll call the experience replay buffer.
As we continue interacting with the world,
we add more samples to this buffer
until we eventually fill it up.
When this happens, we can pick
an older experienced to delete and
replace with a new experience.
We also need to consider
the size of our buffer.
By allowing the buffer to be really large,
we can remember potentially useful
transitions from many times steps ago.
However, the agent does
have practical limitations.
We will need to consider the amount
of memory used by large buffers and
any computational impacts from storing and
accessing large buffers.
What we have decided to store buffer
a natural idea is to use mini batches.
Using a single sample from the experience
replay buffer can produce a noisy update.
Instead, we can use several samples from
the buffer to create an average update to
reduce that noise.
The small collection of samples from
the larger buffer is called a mini batch.
The mini batch updates simply involves
averaging the updates across the K
random samples in the mini batch.
Here's an example of computing this
average update for q-learning.
Restore the average update in a variable,
let's call it U bar, then we grab several
samples from the buffer and compute
the q-learning update for each sample.
Finally, we average those updates
to get the mini batch update.
Putting it all together,
we get the following pseudocode for
experience replay.
As in Dyna, we can think of the planning
steps occurring in the background.
The agent can perform several
of these planning updates,
which are the replay updates per
each real step in the environment.
More updates means we extract more
from the data we have observed.
Each of these replay updates consists of
a mini batch update to reduce the noise of
that update.
>> [SOUND]
>> And that's it.
Experience replay allows the agent to
make better use of its data and so
be more sample efficient.
Further, it makes sure that the agent is
updating in many parts of the environment
just like in Dyna.
This week, you will see how to use
experience replay within your agent.